Lone Azure Narwhal

Medium

# The FractionalAssets::uri() function does not conform to EIP 1155 standard

### Summary

The uri() function does not completely conform to the EIP 1155 standard.

### Root Cause

According to the EIP 1155 standard:

> Metadata
> The URI value allows for ID substitution by clients. If the string {id} exists in any URI, clients MUST replace this with the actual token ID in hexadecimal form. This allows for a large number of tokens to use the same on-chain string by defining a URI once, for that large number of tokens.
> 
> The string format of the substituted hexadecimal ID MUST be lowercase alphanumeric: [0-9a-f] with no 0x prefix.
> The string format of the substituted hexadecimal ID MUST be leading zero padded to 64 hex characters length if necessary.
> Example of such a URI: https://token-cdn-domain/{id}.json would be replaced with https://token-cdn-domain/000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004cce0.json if the client is referring to token ID 314592/0x4CCE0.

As shown below the implementation of the uri() function does not convert the tokenId to a hexadecimal format before merging it with the baseURI

```
function uri(uint256 tokenId) public view override returns (string memory) {
        // The _baseURI must be ended in "/"
        return string(abi.encodePacked(_baseURI, Strings.toString(tokenId)));
    }
```


### Internal Pre-conditions

a

### External Pre-conditions

b

### Attack Path

 c

### Impact

Metadata Retrieval Issues

Clients expecting a hexadecimal, zero-padded ID will not be able to fetch metadata correctly since the function provides a decimal representation.
This could lead to broken links or missing metadata for tokens.
Incompatibility with Marketplaces and Wallets

Other tools and smart contracts expecting compliance with EIP-1155 might not work properly with these tokens, reducing interoperability.

### PoC

_No response_

### Mitigation

Use this instead: 

```
function uri(uint256 tokenId) public view override returns (string memory) {
        // The _baseURI must be ended in "/"
        return string(abi.encodePacked(_baseURI, Strings.toHexString(tokenId, 32)));
    }
```
